4.5 release page (#1138)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_release_4_5/entry-systems-xr-openxr-render-models.md

---
type: entry
section: systems
subsection: XR
rank: 2
importance: 3
anchor: openxr-render-models
title: OpenXR render models
text: |

>   Godot added support for the `XR_EXT_render_model` and `XR_EXT_interaction_render_model` extensions introduced in OpenXR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We've added support for the `XR_EXT_render_model` and `XR_EXT_interaction_render_model` extensions introduced in OpenXR!
```
Other cards refer to "we" so I think this is appropriate and flows a bit better/more conversationally

>   These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully animated models of the controllers currently held by users, including tracking data for these controllers. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra effort from the developer.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to call out that this includes tracking data - that would be expected:

```suggestion
  These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully animated models of the controllers currently held by users. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra effort from the developer.
```

>   These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully animated models of the controllers currently held by the users, including tracking data for these controllers. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra efforts from the developer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully animated models of the controllers currently held by users, including tracking data for these controllers. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra effort from the developer.
```
When referring to "amount of work" in this case "effort" is singular, "efforts" instead for cases like "the efforts of", English is strange

>   These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully animated models of the controllers currently held by the users, including tracking data for these controllers. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra efforts from the developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These extensions, when enabled and supported, give an application access to fully-animated models of the controllers currently held by the users, as well as tracking data. This means Meta Quest 3S and Pico 4 Ultra users will see their respective controllers in their hands without extra efforts from the developer.
```

Author: I used @dsnopek's sugggestion: https://github.com/godotengine/godot-website/pull/1138#discussion_r2319925814

>   In order to use this feature in your game, you need to add <code class="highlight"><span class="enginetype">OpenXRRenderModels</span></code> as a child node of the <code class="highlight"><span class="enginetype">XROrigin3D</span></code> node to make the system work. For more information, [read the docs](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/tutorials/xr/openxr_render_models.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In order to use this feature in your game, you need to add <code class="highlight"><span class="enginetype">OpenXRRenderModels</span></code> as a child node of the <code class="highlight"><span class="enginetype">XROrigin3D</span></code> node. For more information, [please see the docs](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.5/tutorials/xr/openxr_render_models.html).
```
In English this direct phrasing is strangely perceived as aggressive

Also repetition of "In order to use this feature" and "to make the system work"
